gazen officials say Israel's air strikes
have killed more than 2,300 people uh
hamas's Terror attacks claimed the lives
of over
1,300 Israelis the United States has
sent a second aircraft carrier to the
Eastern Mediterranean to support Israel
and we know Israel's Communications
Minister wants a alzer's local Bureau to
be shut down accusing the culture-based
news channel of incitement let's get
more now on the military situation with
Peter Lerner a spokesperson for the
Israeli Defense Force
welcome um with this major ground
offensive looming can you tell us what
the IDF strategy is
here thank you CLA yes indeed we are
currently uh in in in the action of
destroying hamas's capability to ever
conduct a massacre against our people
ever again uh the activities include um
air air strikes against hamas's
infrastructure as an organization its
leaders who orchestrated um and Ma The
Mastermind yya sinir who instructed and
utilized the whole system of Hamas in
order to um conduct this attack and of
course the ground terrorists the people
that breached the attack breached the
fence breached the perimeter and
penetrated our um our border just last
night we killed alidra a NBA Commando
leader of Hamas we killed him um and
he's a commander from the hunas area he
was actually involved in the attack uh
the butchering of people in kibuts Nim
so we are very determined to destroy
hamas's capability to remove that threat
from the people of Israel yeah just to
be clear uh Hamas itself has not yet
confirmed those deaths I'm curious how
concerned the IDF is that here it is
walking into a trap that could lead to
many more Israeli deaths do not think
that a military response here is exactly
what Hamas
wants
that's a very interesting question and
actually I'd say that's the first time
I've been asked this over the last
couple of days you know what are the
Alternatives the alternatives are Hamas
continue to butcher babies in their
bedrooms um our government has
instructed the IDF to remove the threat
of Hamas to remove them from governing
Gaza as a staging ground against our
people and that is what we intend to do
now we will take the necessary steps in
order to uh protect our people and um
destroy hamas's cap abilities and I
would say they need to be banished um
from the realm of this existence we will
be fighting in on in the Gaza Strip um
up against this extensive tunnel Network
that Hamas has and it surely will mean
many more deaths for Israelis is this a
risk does this make sense as a risk to
take so the Israel Defense Forces that
is our mission we have to take the
necessary steps and as a soldier you do
that also the potential of sacrificing
yourself for the for the country to
defend the civilians you know we um on
October 7th we failed the people of
Israel um as the our border was
penetrated we can't let that happen
again and that is why there needs to be
a change of system in Gaza and I would
say that you know when Hamas penetrated
our border and butchered over 1,300
people in their ruthless attack we they
they broke the rules of the game and now
we are changing the game now the IDF
let's turn to the people uh who are
living in Gaza the IDF has said it will
offer it has offered safe passage for
people from the northern part of Gaza to
escape from expected Israeli strikes yet
we have both the United Nations and Aid
groups pleading for you to reverse your
evacuation saying that it is not only
impossible but it is even a death
sentence for the vulnerable how is an
evacuation of more than 1 million people
under circumstances like this safe and
and in compliance with international
law absolutely we operate within the
realm of the laws of armed conflict our
instruction and to the people of Gaza to
move South is a humanitarian effort in
order to keep them out of Harm's Way
it's our action uh to differentiate the
terrorists and non-combatants know the
people of Gaza they are not our enemy
but Hamas that have utilized all of the
civilian infrastructure they put drones
with explosives on their rooftops of
houses they put rockets in the basements
of of uh High Fly highrise um uh
buildings they utilize command and
control positions out of public in
infrastructure they do it all out of a
sense that they can jeopardize the
people of Gaza without having to pay a
price now the people of Gaza need to
move and they are listening to us I'm
very glad that they are listening to us
cuz what we've seen over the last few
days is Hamas trying to prevent people
from evacuating from what is going to be
our conflict Zone our ground of
operations because they want to prevent
us from rooting them out that is our
role at the moment you know we've seen
them um erect physical barriers you know
yesterday it was widely reported I think
on uh do as well about the uh about a
convoy that was supposedly attacked by
the IDF I can tell you now the 0
civilians dead that was that was from
Hamas and and again and this was you if
you listen to what Hamas is saying you
you you're OB obviously being um uh
fooled because our investigation uh has
come to the conclusion there was no IDF
action in that area the images suggest
that the explosion Came from Beneath not
from above and uh we we intend to expose
the images that we have from this
incident that actually prove that so I
eyt accounts it is not just the claim
from Hamas we've heard from eight
agencies that there were other Witnesses
who claimed to see this I want to come
to a point that you've made sorry if you
if I may I want to come to a point that
you made just earlier um you know the
Israeli military is one of the most
advanced it's one of the best funded in
the world and I'm wondering if you are
looking at leveling whole parts of Gaza
buildings uh to reach Hamas where while
there are civilians present is this a
proportionate response to hamas's
capabilities
our military operations are based on the
military necess necessity necessity the
proportionality and the the mission
itself and absolutely within the realm
of the laws of armed conflict there is
no goal to flatten Gaza that is
absolutely outrageous our goal is to
destroy hamas's infrastructure now yes
they have located themselves within
civili the civilian Arena as I pointed
out they have no regard for human life
that is exactly what they're doing
but they cannot be permitted to do it at
the expense of Israeli babies being
butchered in their bedrooms but if if
Hamas is so embedded among the civilian
population how will it be possible to
destroy their infrastructure without
also leveling
Gaza we are targeting their leaders
we're targeting their terrorists we're T
targeting their command and control
positions and yes indeed we're telling
this is precisely the reason we're
telling people you know you have to head
south from um Gaza City to wadii Beyond
Wadi Gaza in for your own well-being now
this is the current situation
unfortunately this was a war that Hamas
chose as a strategy it wasn't one freak
account of a small group of terrorists
that has happened in the past these
types of events it was a strategy they
penetrated they opened a launched a war
on Israel they killed 1,300 people in
one day and it must be condemned
outright there's no there's no question
funerals in Israel taking place today
200 funerals because of their Butchery
can never ever happen again allow I
cannot imagine the suffering that Israel
has gone through and is continuing to go
through um with that there's no question
but I just want to come back to you in
your position with the IDF you can talk
to me here about Israel's response not
what Hamas has done um and just one one
more question to you you know for the
people who are heeding your order to go
from northern Gaza to the South what
guarantees can you make that they are
going to be safe there in the
South our operations are are primarily
targeting Hamas and their activities
their leaders from yya sinir The
Mastermind of the massacre who has
subordinated the entire organization to
the needs of terrorism the who has
utilized all of the tools of governing
Gaza to empower The Butchers of
The Butchers of the party near they put
the the people that came in and took
people out
OFA this is some this is the
organization that needs to be removed
the people of Gaza are not our Target we
will do what we can within the realm of
the law ofan conflict to limit civilian
casualties your report itself you know
he told you in your report that you just
broadcasted that um he received a text
message a military announc that they are
coming you need to evacu evacuate
evacuate your area in a text message to
a Palestinian living in an area I must
jump in and just make the case for the
people who receive those messages but
don't have the means to leave the
elderly the sick those who don't have
transportation to organize fleeing to an
already very densely populated part of
Southern Gaza this is the criticism
we've been hearing from Aid
organizations um I think we can leave it
there thank thank you so much that is
Peter Lerner the spokesperson for the
Israeli Defense Forces we really
appreciate you taking the time to speak
with us on DW
news thank you CLA and we can speak to
DW's senior International correspondent
funny farar in Jerusalem for more uh
funny the Israeli military today saying
that there are 126 people being held
hostage in Gaza it's it's almost
impossible to imagine what families and
Israel are going through not knowing
what has happened to these people to
their loved ones um what have you been
hearing
there the fact that these families are
going through a very difficult time is
really an understatement in fact if you
uh listen first of all to the number
that you just mentioned they 126 and
even that number keeps changing really
have you been hearing every any number
now here between 100 and 150 since the
uh hamus militants attacked Israel on
October seven sevens and H killed
official number they killed at least one
1,300 people people in Israel and
abducted more than 100 people and the
question really is what is happening to
them in fact the people who took to the
street yesterday in Tel Aviv protesting
because they say they want to make sure
that of course they will see their
relatives alive and there have a lot of
mixed voices Within These protest people
who say there has to be a very strong
response by Israel but then also their
relatives who say no it cannot be that
there's a strong response in the sense
that is's a ground offensive because
they are concerned for their relatives
that they will be killed as well because
one has to imagine uh the hideouts of uh
the militants the Hamas militants in
Gaza is uh not just a vast Labyrinth Ong
ground but also there they are hiding in
in in in residential buildings so it's
it's not as black and white as it may
appear militarily that uh the Israeli
military goes in and can really localize
to say so the ham militants without uh
causing casualties in fact that's also
the concern not just by human rights
organizations but pretty much everyone
who has followed the history the Gaza
Wars previous Gaza wars in the past just
pointing out there the Gaza war in in
2014 the last major ground offensive by
Israeli forces back then more than 2,000
people have been killed in uh Gaza Strip
most of them the Palestinians so with
that in mind uh people are increasingly
worried just what is happening to to
their relatives whether there will be
any negotiation but with whom exactly
Israel does not want to uh negotiate
with the terrorist organization so who
can play that part to somehow make sure
that those people who are going through
hell right now have a way uh to get out
safely and and and return uh uh to
Israel so concerns for people in Gaza
concerns for the hostages can you tell
us more about what people there in
Jerusalem are making of Israel's
expected ground offensive into Gaza and
what this will mean for
them
there are a lot of questions here
actually when it comes to that uh ground
offensive and everybody's speaking about
this really uh for days now first of
when is it going to happen and what once
it starts how long it's going to last
what will it mean uh for the Palestinian
people in Gaza Strip who have been
ordered to leave from the northern part
of of uh of Gaza Strip to the South how
is that even possible to do so uh
without any humanitarian consequences uh
the UN has very much criticized Israel
for that order uh it's impossible to
carry it out without any casualties they
say and at the same time once again
they're very very mixed reactions in
Israel when it comes to this question
really what is the answer uh to uh uh to
to to the terror attack and the the
massive casualties here in Israel uh
more than a week ago when this um attack
was carried out what should the Israeli
government do even though people are
very much United here in Israel when it
comes to their sorrow and also uh just
simply um they do not understand how was
it even possible that the Hamas
militants could strike why wasn't
Israeli government protecting them so
there's a mix of people are angry but
there's also a a a this feeling of there
must be some sort of Revenge while at
the same time people are also raising
the question with regard to the moral
responsibility of Israel towards the
Palestinian people why they have to pay
the price is a question getting very
often lately why the Palestinian people
in Gaza Strip are the ones who are going
to pay the price for the action that was
carried out by hamus militants funny
thank you so much for sharing some
insights from your reporting that is
funny forar in Jerusalem for
us and Israeli officials say a missile
strike from Southern Lebanon has killed
at least one civilian in Northern Israel
Pro Iranian Hezbollah militants have
claimed responsibility for the strikes
the Israeli military said it responded
with artill fire and also announced the
closure of the area near the border
crossb fire has intensified since last
Sunday authorities say more than 10
people in Lebanon and at least two in
Israel have been
killed